---
date: 2024-01-12
title: Our paper “Neural sensitivity to translational self‐and object‐motion velocities” is now out in Human Brain Mapping.
hero: /images/news/2024-01-12-egobject-motion.png
---

Among the egomotion areas, MT+, V6+, and V3A responses are modulated by object-motion velocities during self-motion, hence reflecting their possible role in discriminating between distinct velocities of self- and object-motion.

*V. Sulpizio, A. von Gal, G. Galati, P. Fattori, C. Galletti, S. Pitzalis*
The ability to detect and assess world-relative object-motion is a critical computation performed by the visual system. This computation, however, is greatly complicated by the observer's movements, which generate a global pattern of motion on the observer's retina. How the visual system implements this computation is poorly understood. Since we are potentially able to detect a moving object if its motion differs in velocity (or direction) from the expected optic flow generated by our own motion, here we manipulated the relative motion velocity between the observer and the object within a stationary scene as a strategy to test how the brain accomplishes object-motion detection. Specifically, we tested the neural sensitivity of brain regions that are known to respond to egomotion-compatible visual motion (i.e., egomotion areas: cingulate sulcus visual area, posterior cingulate sulcus area, posterior insular cortex [PIC], V6+, V3A, IPSmot/VIP, and MT+) to a combination of different velocities of visually induced translational self- and object-motion within a virtual scene while participants were instructed to detect object-motion. To this aim, we combined individual surface-based brain mapping, task-evoked activity by functional magnetic resonance imaging, and parametric and representational similarity analyses. We found that all the egomotion regions (except area PIC) responded to all the possible combinations of self- and object-motion and were modulated by the self-motion velocity. Interestingly, we found that, among all the egomotion areas, only MT+, V6+, and V3A were further modulated by object-motion velocities, hence reflecting their possible role in discriminating between distinct velocities of self- and object-motion. We suggest that these egomotion regions may be involved in the complex computation required for detecting scene-relative object-motion during self-motion.

[Read the paper on the publisher's web site](https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.26571)